♪ [music] ♪
Let's get rocking on our
search here. So if I right-click,
"Inspect" on this, you
have a div with a class of search.
Inside of that we have an input, and then
we have a hidden div that has search
results inside of it. So what we want to
do is open up our public folder,
open up our JavaScripts folder, and then
in our modules we're going to make a new
file called typeAhead, capital A, .js.
Then inside of that we're going to import
a library called axios, "const axios =
require('axios');". And axios is a library
sort of like fetch built into the browser,
but with some sane defaults and some nice
ability to cancel requests if you ever
want to implement something like that.
Then we're going to make a function called
typeAhead, which will take in the search
box. And it's going to be exported from
this file. Good. Then we'll open up our
main delicious-app and we will import
that. We'll put it above here,
"import typeAhead from '.
/modules/typeAhead';". Then we will run it
and we'll say, "typeAhead",
and we will pass it "$('.search')".
Good. So we'll see if it worked. We'll go
inside of our typeAhead and just
console.log search. Make sure that
everything is up and running before we
start writing some real code. When I
refresh we get a div with a class of
search. Good. So essentially how this is
going to work is we are going to listen
for when somebody types into this box
here. And when somebody types into this
box, we are going to hit our API endpoint
with the value that's typed into that box,
and then wait for the results to come
back, and then we can make some drop-down
value here. So let's do the very basics,
which is when somebody types in the box,
let's console.log what they typed. Delete
this. First thing we want to do is say,
"If there is no search, then we are just
going to return." And what that will do is
if, for whatever reason, the search is not
on the page, then we don't want to run
this function at all. And that will stop
any of these "cannot find query selector
of", etc., etc. So first thing we need is
we need the input and we need the results.
So what we do here is you say, "const
searchInput =". We'll take our search and
we will querySelector inside of that for
our input with the name of search.
Then we also need our results div,
"search__results". Good. So we have our
two pieces of information that we're
looking for here, let's quickly
console.log them to searchInput and
searchResults. Let's double-check that we
have those values on page load. There's
our input, there's our results.
It's zero pixels high because we are not
showing anything in it right now.
Good. Okay, then what we need to do is
listen for an input event on that search.
So we'll say, "searchInput.on('input')".
And again, "on" is just a shortcut in
bling.js for addEventListener. But we are
just using "on" because we are cool.
And when the input function runs, we are
going to run this callback.
Which in here we'll just console.log
this.value. And once you type C-O-F-F-E-E,
good. So we are listening for an input
event on the searchInput.
When that happens, we are using
this.value, which will give us the actual
value of here. Good. What we do want to do
is immediately, if there is no value
inside of that, we just want to hide the
search results and return.
Because, and we'll just put a little
comment, "if there is no value,
quit it". So if somebody is typing in
here, and then they backspace it all,
we should get rid of any search results
that we do have as well as stop this thing
from running because there's nothing to
search for. So how do we do that?
We take our search results and we grab the
style.display property and we set that to
"none", which will hide it. And then we
also return, which will stop.
Okay, good. Then what we want to do is
show the search result.
So, "searchResults.style.display =",
we want to make it "block".
So if it was hidden from before, we want
to now make it block.
And then we use axios to hit our endpoint.
So, "axios", ".get".
Now what is our URL? "/api/search"," and
then the query parameter is going to be
set to this.value. Then we chain a .then
on the end, which gives us our response.
And let's just do a quick console.log,
res.data. So if I type C,
we get an empty array. O-F-F-E-E. And as
soon as I did my first letter,
you see that these are all empty coming
back? But as soon as I hit "coffee",
it comes back with three objects from our
actual API. Very good,
I'm really happy with that. So we have our
res.data coming back to us.
Then inside of here we'll say, "If there
is any data that has come back,
so res.data.length, then we will
console.log 'There is something to show!'"
So now are we going to see anything?
C-O-F-F-E-E. And then as soon as we hit
the "coffee", the data comes back and
says, "Yes, there actually are some
results for coffee." Let's go ahead and do
that. So at this point we need to start
making some results HTML to actually
display to our users. Let me open up the
actual finished version to show you kind
of what we're going for here.
This is our finished version here. So as
soon as I hit "coffee",
you see how as I type C-O-F-F-E-E there's
nothing? And as soon as I hit "coffee",
it's going to start showing us the results
here. And I can use my arrow keys to go up
and down to all the different versions
that we have. And when I hit "enter",
it's going to bring me to the actual URL
for that one. Good. So rather than make
the HTML write inside of this function,
this is getting a little bit harry,
I'm going to go to the top here and I'm
going to make a second function that's
called searchResultsHTML. So it's a
function, searchResultsHTML.
It's going to take in an array of stores
and it's going to return to us some HTML.
Now if you take in either my ES6 or my
JavaScript 30 course, you'll be fairly
familiar with this. We're just going to
return the stores and we're going to map
over each store. And from that we are
going to return, backticks.
And each of those stores has "a" with a
class of .search__result,
singular. And the "a href" is going to be
equal to "/stores/$".
Good. And inside of that we are going to
give ourselves a strong tag which has the
store.name inside of it. Alternatively,
you can also give yourself a paragraph tag
which has the store.description inside of
it. But I'm going to leave that off for
now because I think it clutters up our
search a little bit too much.
So this searchResultsHTML is now a nice
little function that we can use to map
over each stores, return some HTML for
each one, and then on the end of this one
we can call .join because this map is
going to return to us an array and we
really just want a string. Here, let me
show you what it looks like without it.
So we'll go down here and I'll say, "const
HTML = searchResultsHTML(res.data);".
That's going to be the array of stores.
And let's just console.log the HTML for
each of those. So watch what happens now
when I search for coffee.
What comes back is a list of stores,
res.data. We pass that into our
searchResultsHTML. And then from that we
get an array of three pieces of HTML,
each with a link and a strong tag inside
of it. But we don't want an array,
we just want one big chunk of HTML. So I
can call .join on the end here and that is
going to give us, there we go, nice actual
HTML, one string rather than an array of
three strings. Good. At this point we just
take our searchResults and we set the
innerHTML to be the HTML that we have
there. Or what you can do is you can just
take this function here and set the result
to be that right away.
It's not necessary to put in a variable if
you're just doing it in one line.
Now if I search for coffee, C-O-F-F-E-E.
And as soon as I hit "coffee",
we're generating that HTML and having it
replaced. Now there also is a bit of a
problem now. If I were to backspace, it's
not finding anything,
but it's not actually removing anything.
So what we want to do is at the top of
this, where we did
"searchResults.style.display = 'block';",
we could do "searchResults[removed] =
'';". And that will blow it away if there
is nothing to actually show. So here we
go, C-O-F-F-E-E. There we go.
And then if I were to remove the extra E,
it's not finding anything,
so it's going to remove it entirely for
us. Good. Last thing we need to do here is
a catch, the error. And if there is an
error, you need to handle it accordingly.
So it's up to you what you want
to do with that specific error.
You can just console.error the actually
error and send it off to yourself.
Or if you have something like Sentry set
up, the error will go off to your Sentry
support. Good. So let's try it one more
time, make sure it's working.
Very good. Now there's a couple other
things that we need in order to actually
handle the changing over to it. Because I
can search for coffee and I can manually
click on one of them, and that's going to
bring me to that specific store.
Good, let's try it one more time. If I
search C-O-F-F-E-E, we see all of them.
If I were to click on one of them, like
Mulberry Coffee, we should go to the...
We don't go to the store. I think that's
because I screwed up the URL,
singular S. Singular stores, not multiple
stores. So let's try that once more.
C-O-F-F-E-E, click on Rust City Brewery,
and it actually brings me to the page
specifically for Rust City Brewery. Search
for it again, search for Donut Monster,
and it will get me to that page. Good. So
I can click on them,
but how do I also use my keys in order to
have a nice keyboard shortcut so I can use
the up and down? Well, let's go. We're
still inside of our main typeAhead
function right here. We'll say "handle
keyboard inputs". So,
"searchInput.on('keyup'". And when that
happens, we're going to take the event,
and let's just console.log the event,
.keyCode. And that should tell us which
keyCode we are pressing. So we search for
C-O-F-F-E-E. And then down,
down, down is 40. Up, up, up is 38. And
"enter" is 13. So really all we care about
is 38, 40, and 13. So what we can do here
is we'll say, "If they aren't pressing up,
down, or 'enter', who cares?" And we'll
skip it. It's like, "If the array",
and this is kind of a cool way to do it.
We'll say we're looking for 38,
40, or 13. If that doesn't include the
event .keyCode, then we'll simply just
return, "nah". Otherwise we're going to
console.log "DO SOMETHING!!".
So if we do not have 38, 40, or 13, then
just skip this one. We'll say skip it.
Otherwise we're going to console.log "DO
SOMETHING!!". So let's try it again now.
C-O-F-F-E-E, nothing. But I hit down, "Do
SOMETHING!!" Up, "DO SOMETHING!!" And I
hit "enter", a third "DO SOMETHING!!"
Good. Otherwise all the other keys are
doing absolutely nothing for us so we
don't really care. It becomes a little bit
of a complicated part because if we go to
the answer here, and I'm searching for
coffee, you notice I can hit down and up.
And if I hit the bottom and I hit down,
it will cycle to the top. If I hit up on
the first one, it will cycle to the last
one. And it will allow you just to sort of
move your selected cursor throughout all
of them. So if you want a little bit of a
challenge, pause and try to come up with
the actual JavaScript, front-end
JavaScript, to handle this. Otherwise I'll
go through it now with you. So the first
thing that we need is an active class that
is going to mark each one as active,
right? If I were to inspect this sucker
here and I were to move up and down, you
see how I'm removing and adding the class
of search__result--active? I'm just going
to keep that, search__result--active,
I'm going to keep that in a variable here.
So we'll go here and we'll say,
"const activeClass =". And that is going
to be search__result--active.
Then we need the current. Every single
time that we press down,
what we're going to be doing is we're
going to be finding the current one.
And the way that we're going to do that is
we're just going to find which one has
that current class. So we'll say, "const
current = search.querySelector".
And we're going to be looking for
something with the class, actually we need
backticks here, something with the class
of activeClass. And the only reason I'm
putting it in a variable here is because I
don't feel like writing this thing over
and over again. I'd rather just put it in
a variable and reference the variable
activeClass over and over. Then we will
take a list of all of the items.
So, "const items =
search.querySelectorAll", because we want
a node list to come back. We're going to
look for all the search results,
search__results. Then finally we need a
let variable called next.
And the reason that is a let and not a
const is because we are going to be
updating it. Essentially how it's going to
work is that we're going to figure out
what are we currently on and, if someone
presses down or up, which one is going to
be the next one. So first thing we want to
do is say, "If they press down and there
is one selected, we want to set next to be
the one after it." So if I'm on Mulberry
and I press down, I want the next one to
be Rest City Brewery.
So say, "If the event .keyCode is equal to
40," meaning that they press down,
"and there is a current one already,"
because they've already selected one,
"then the next one is going to be the
current one, .nextElementSibling,
or this is going to be the first one in
the actual row." And what that will do is
if I'm on the last one, there's obviously
no nextElementSibling because I'm on the
last one. And what this "or" will do is it
will fall back to the first item in our
array. Then we have an "else if (e.keyCode
=== 40)", then what we say is "next =
items0". So if they press down and there
is no current, so it's the first time.
Let me refresh this page. I hit "coffee"
and there's current one because I haven't
selected any yet, and I press down. Now in
that case the keyCode was down,
so the next one has to be the first one so
far. Next up we have else if the event
.keyCode is equal to 38 and there is a
current, so this is kind of the opposite.
So if someone is pressing, what did we say
the up was? Keycode.info.
So if someone is pressing up, which is 38.
Down, which is 40. And there is a current
one. We'll say next is equal to the
current.previousElementSibling or the last
thing in the items. So here if I'm
"coffee" and I press up, then it should
select the last one. So we'll say
items.length-1, square bracket
items.length-1. And that's a little trick
that we can use to get the last element on
there. Then we say, "Else if the event
.keyCode is equal to 38,
so if it's just equal to 38, the next is
going to be equal to the items,
the last one in the list, items.length-1.
Finally, we need to handle the "enter"
key. So we'll say, "Else if the e.keyCode
is equal to 13 and there is a
current.href". Meaning that if someone hit
"enter" and there is a current element
with a href value on it, then we need to
put them on that actual page.
So say, "[removed] = current.href;".
So at this point let's just console.log
next and see what we're dealing with after
this huge if/if else statement.
I'm going to refresh here and type in
"coffee", and open up my dev tools now.
And I'm going to press down, down, down,
down. It's always undefined,
so we have a bit of an error here. Let's
double-check. Oh, "next = items0".
And give that a refresh. "Coffee", down,
there we go. I push down,
Mulberry Coffee. Press down again, it's
always going to give me Mulberry Coffee
because we're not adding the class. So
down, down, down. If I hit up,
it's going to give me Donut Monster
because that's the last one in there.
Good. So what we want to do now that we
have next, we want to add an activeClass
to our next one. So in the
next.classList.add, the activeClass.
I'll see what we're doing here. So
"coffee", down, Mulberry. Down,
Rust City. Down, oh, we're kind of stuck
here. We have two, and now all three have
the class of active. Well, before we add a
class of active to that next one we need
to remove it from the current one. So say,
"If there is a current one,
then we will simply take the current and
take the class list and we will remove the
activeClass. So if we currently have a
current one, then just remove it from it.
"Coffee", down, there we go. Down, down,
up, up, up, down, down,
down. Good, it seems to be cycling just
fine. Now if I hit "enter" on Rust City
Brewery, oh, "Cannot read property
'classList' of undefined". Oh,
and that's because if you do hit "enter",
we need to stop this function from
running. So we type a return. So we'll say
"coffee". Down, down,
Rust City Brewery, I'm going to hit
"enter". Doesn't seem to have worked.
Let's do a quick console.log in here and
debug it, "Changing Pages!" And
console.log current, see what that does.
"Coffee", enter. It says "Changing
Pages!", it gives us the current Rust City
Brewery. Oh, what am I doing with these
triple equals? It's only one equals.
You're probably yelling at me being like,
"What a fool. How does this guy have a
course? He doesn't even know how equals
works." Hit "enter". There we go, then it
will actually change the page because you
have to know how JavaScript works before
we get into that. So delete those two
console.logs, now we have all of this
stuff working beautifully for us.
I know that's quite a bit of code, but
it's kind of neat to take a break from the
server-side stuff and just work with a
little bit more of this interfacy stuff
that requires us to have keyboard input as
well as clicking. So that us our layout
there. One thing I did notice is that I
used a traditional require here,
and everywhere else through our front-end
JavaScript we use our ES6 import.
And the reason why that still worked is
because we're using webpack to convert to
CommonJS first, and then it gets compiled
for us. So instead of requiring axios,
we want to say "import axios from
'axios';". And then that will do exactly
the same thing, but we're just keeping it
consistent with ES6 on our front end.
And then on the server side we're still
using CommonJS modules just because we do
not have ES6 modules in Node just yet. You
can compile them, but it's more of a
headache than it's worth because it's just
syntax at the end of the day.
So we've got this up and running, let's
double-check that this works.
"Coffee", there we go. One other thing is
that on the answer when you don't find
something, it tells you "No Results for,"
the word, "Found". And that's probably
better than what we're doing, which is
just hiding it. Because then your user is
trying to do stuff and nothing is
happening, right? So what did we do?
If there's no value, quit it. But at this
point we say, "If there is some stuff that
comes back". And at this point right here
what we want to do is,
rather than clear out the innerHTML, what
we want to do is we will have an else
here. Or we will just return from this and
not have an else, just on its own line
here. And we'll say, "Tell them nothing
came back". Which means that the result
data came back, but there wasn't length to
it because there were no results.
So at that point what we'll do is we'll
take our searchResults[removed] and we'll
set it to use some backticks. We will take
a div with a class of search__result,
and then inside of that we'll say "No
results for," and we can interpolate the
value, $, "found!" We'll see
if that works. There we go,
no results found. It will tell us exactly
what it has found. And then if we
backspace, it will go away. Good. So those
are a couple things.
And the last thing, I think that we're
open to an XSS attack, a cross-site
scripting attack, right here. And the way
that we can test that is if we are to log
in real quick and we are to go to one of
the stores that we had made with this
account. And in this case New Store is the
only one I've done.
And let's change the New Store to be an
image tag. And the image tag can go to
anything, I'm just going to copy this
image. It doesn't matter what it's to,
what's important is that there is an
onload event with an image.
And you can say, "alert&#40;'you got
hacked'&#41;". So let's see if this works.
Save. So you see, that immediately pops up
because what we just did is we allowed
somebody to put an image tag inside of
their store name. Which in most cases Pug
will take care of it for you. So let's
look for New Store. See,
somebody can try and put an image and it
won't actually load it.
But when we are responsible for creating
HTML ourselves, as we have done in our
search results right here, if I search for
"New", look at this.
As soon as I search for "New" it says "you
got hacked", I press "OK",
and it actually brings the result with
allowing us to have a store with a strong,
and then the image tag is in here. We're
taking advantage of the onload event in
JavaScript. And at that point anyone could
load any JavaScript they could possibly
want and actually ruin your website. So
you need to be really careful.
Before you actually embed any HTML on your
page, you need to sanitize that data.
And if you have looked at my ES6 course, I
like to do this with a library called
Purify. Go to the top here and we will
"import dompurify from 'dompurify';".
Now we have this thing called dompurify.
And then anywhere you are setting HTML,
so we are doing it right here,
searchResults, we'll just wrap the entire
searchResults in dompurify.sanitize. And
then also we're doing it right here.
Technically someone could access this
themselves by searching for something,
and then it would set the innerHTML. We
don't want that. So we'll
dompurify.sanitize that. Save. Now when we
refresh and you search for "New",
what that does is it still finds that huge
image, but you can see that the onload
event has been stripped out of the actual
image that was in the URL.
So what you could also do at this point is
use other libraries to strip out images.
Or, even better, when somebody actually
saves the data to your database,
you could strip out the images, as well.
How you would do that is you would go into
your store model, Store.js, and you would
add yourself another "Scheme.pre('save'".
And this one we did for the slug, but then
you could get another Node.js library that
will strip any unnecessary HTML or any
HTML from specific fields.
So maybe you do want some HTML to be
available in the description,
but absolutely no HTML to be available in
the title. Then you would add yourself a
new "pre('save'". So I'm not going to show
you how to do that,
but if you want to have a little bit of a
challenge to go into something right now,
I definitely challenge you to actually
implement that. Throw it up on GitHub and
I'm sure other people in the course would
love to see how you finished that.
So that is our search results, let's move
on to doing some more stuff with the AJAX
endpoints.
♪ [music] ♪